**Tutorial Week 10, Semester 2 2022: Design Sustainability**




**Aims and Purpose**

The purpose of this tutorial is to help you think through the
environmental dimensions of technology design and use, and how to
prototype new technology designs in sustainable ways. This content is
new to COMP3900/COMP6390 this year -- your feedback on the content and
activities is appreciated.

**Preparation**

You should complete the following activities prior to attending your
tutorial:

- Watch the Week 10 lecture content on HCI and sustainability (if
  possible before your tutorial) and review the lecture slides

- Develop a plan for how you are going to construct your high-fidelity
  prototype.

**Structure**

The tutorial will follow this structure:

1.  Introduction and announcements (5 mins)

2.  Materials and tools analysis of your design process (25 mins)

3.  Reporting back and discussion (10 mins)

**Activities**

1.  Introduction and announcements (5 mins)

    a.  Your Tutor will open the session and let you know of any
        reminders and announcements

    b.  Your Tutor will put you into a breakout room with your project
        team members.

2.  Materials and tools analysis of your design process (25 mins)

    a.  Create a shared document for your Team with the following table:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Number**   **Material/Tool**   **Artefact          **Environmental
                                   produced**          impacts of the
                                                       material/tool**
  ------------ ------------------- ------------------- ---------------------
  *1*          *e.g., Draw.io*     *Brainstorming      *C02 emissions, water
                                   diagram*            use, energy use from
                                                       cloud computing
                                                       infrastructure (try
                                                       to include more
                                                       specifics and detail
                                                       than this)*

  2                                                    
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

b.  Discuss the following points below and populate the table cells with
    your responses:

    - **Materials/tools:** List all of the materials and tools that you
      have used in your Prototype Design and Presentation Assessment so
      far (hardware, software, devices, digital files, note paper,
      stationery, crafting materials).

    - **Artefact produced:** Identify the artefact(s) that you produced
      using these tools (e.g., planning documents, ideation materials,
      prototypes etc.)

    - **Environmental impact:** Think about the environmental impact of
      the materials and tools that you have used (including the
      infrastructure needed to produce the materials or offer the
      services). What alternative materials/tools could you use that
      would reduce the environmental impact of your design work
      (thinking about energy, waste etc.)?

> You may need to do some internet research as part of this activity.
> Try to include specifics and examples as much as possible e.g., amount
> of emissions, resources used etc.

c.  Add the following additional columns to your table:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Lifespan**   **Value**             **Reuse/repurpose   **Possible
                                       of artefacts**      alternative
                                                           materials**
  -------------- --------------------- ------------------- -----------------
  1 year         Can be used in my     Revising the work   A different
                 portfolio to          as a digital        prototyping tool
                 demonstrate my skills portfolio entry     e.g., Figma
                 in conducting                             
                 brainstorming                             
                 sessions and in                           
                 producing high                            
                 quality                                   
                 visualisations.                           

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

d.  Discuss the following points below and populate the table cells with
    your responses:

    - **Lifespan:** Think about think the intended lifespan of each
      artefact until it stops becoming useful (e.g., three weeks, six
      months, five years). How will you use, store, or dispose of this
      artefact after its intended lifespan?

    - **Value:** For each of physical and digital artefact you have
      identified, what kinds of value do these artefacts hold, if any
      (apart from providing you with a grade in the course)? Will the
      artefacts or knowledge encoded in them have value for your studies
      and career beyond the course? Will any of these artefacts have
      sentimental or emotional value?

    - **Reuse/repurposing:** Can any of the artefacts you have produced
      or their materials be reused or repurposed for something else
      after the course?

    - **Possible tools/alternative materials:**

      - Identify 5 items of household waste that each person in the
        group commonly throws away (e.g., tin foil, yoghurt containers,
        cardboard cereal boxes, brown butchers/deli paper, egg cartons,
        toilet roll tubes).

      - Think about the material properties of these waste items as
        possible resources for prototyping (what they are made from, the
        look and feel, mechanical properties, how to dispose of the
        material, safe handling of the material):
        <https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/guides/zk9g4qt/revision/1>

      - Discuss whether any of the items you have identified could serve
        as alternatives to the materials and tools you have identified
        above.

<!-- -->

3.  Reporting back and discussion (10 mins)

    a.  Your Tutor(s) will bring you back together for a whole group
        discussion to reflect on what you learnt and observed.

    b.  Your Tutor(s) will bring the workshop to a close and answer any
        questions if there is time.
