**Tutorial Week 2, Semester 2 2022: Design Product Analysis**

Prepared by Jennyfer Lawrence Taylor (with contributions from Penny
Kyburz)

**About the Tutorials**

This is the first tutorial for the semester. This document outlines the
plan for this tutorial. Your Tutor may vary this plan as needed during
the tutorial. Each tutorial will be broken down into activities that you
will do: (1) before the tutorial (preparation), and (2) during the
tutorial (activities).

Each tutorial is 50 minutes long, and will start at five minutes past
the hour and conclude at five minutes to the hour. Tutorials will not be
recorded, and students must not make their own recordings of the session
for the comfort and privacy of participants.

If you are participating in the online tutorials, we request that you
turn your camera on and keep it on for the duration of the tutorial.
This will enable your Tutor to take attendance and monitor your
experience during the tutorial, and will support you to effectively
learn HCI design methods and practices such as user interview skills
that involve non-verbal interactions.

All tutorial participants in in-person classes must wear a face mask and
keep this on for the duration of the tutorial. If a participant is not
wearing a mask, the tutor will pause the tutorial session until everyone
is wearing a mask. If you have a medical exemption or are seeking
further information, please see the ANU COVID-19 Advice page:
<https://www.anu.edu.au/covid-19-advice#masks>

**Aims and Purpose**

The intended learning outcomes of this tutorial is to:

- Apply key concepts of human-computer interaction such as interaction
  design, the user experience, and usability to analyse existing designs

- Evaluate the applicability to, and usefulness of, technology designs
  in diverse use situations and contexts

- Reflect on your own experiences of technology use and identify the
  position and assumptions that you bring to design analysis

**Preparation**

You should complete the following activities prior to attending your
tutorial:

1.  Review the lecture recordings and slides for Week 1 (and Week 2 if
    possible) and associated textbook chapters.

2.  Choose your making activity for Project 1 so that you can discuss
    this with your Tutor.

3.  Make notes about your own experiences of using the design products
    that are addressed in the tutorial activities.

**Structure**

The tutorial will follow this structure:

1.  Introduction and announcements + Make your name card (5 minutes)

2.  Design product analysis (25 minutes)

3.  Reporting back and discussion (15 minutes)

4.  Questions and tutorial close (5 minutes)

**Activities**

1.  Introduction and Announcements (5 minutes)

    a.  Your Tutor(s) will hand out the pieces of card to make your name
        tags.

    b.  Your Tutor(s) will welcome you and commence the session with an
        [Acknowledgement of
        Country](https://services.anu.edu.au/human-resources/respect-inclusion/anu-acknowledgment-of-country).
        If you are joining on Zoom, you are invited to acknowledge the
        Traditional Custodians of the place that you are joining from
        using the Zoom chat.

    c.  You Tutor(s) will introduce themselves to you, and provide you
        with any announcements or reminders.

2.  Make your name card

- You will be asked to create a name tag for yourself with the name that
  you would like others to call you, your pronouns, and a
  (**workplace-appropriate**) emoji, symbol, or Zoom background that
  reflects your interests or identity.

- For in-person tutorials, you will be handed a sheet of card to fold
  and write your name on. For online tutorials, you will be asked to
  rename yourself in Zoom interface.

- Your Tutor(s) and other students will use the name cards to get to
  know you and refer to you correctly in the course. The Tutor(s) will
  also use the name card information to take attendance. **Please ensure
  that you return you name card to your Tutor(s) at the end of each
  tutorial.**

- If you preferred name is different to the name that you have used to
  enrol in the course, please write your actual name on the bottom of
  your name card, or for Zoom participants, put it in brackets or tell
  your Tutors (to help them take attendance).

<!-- -->

- Example name card: Jennyfer (she/her/hers) ![Take Off with solid
  fill](./media/image2.svg){width="0.2638888888888889in"
  height="0.2638888888888889in"}

For further information about what pronouns are, and why we ask you to
write your pronouns on your name card, please see the ANU webpage on
[Gender Inclusive
Language](https://services.anu.edu.au/human-resources/respect-inclusion/gender-inclusive-language)

3.  Design product analysis (25 minutes)

    a.  Your Tutor(s) will randomly allocate you into 3-4 groups in the
        physical room, or allocate you to breakout rooms.

    b.  Introduce yourself to the other students in your group.

    c.  Consider the following design product categories, and identify
        which design product you think would provide the best user
        experience in the scenarios provided. There is no right or wrong
        answer, but the skill you are practicing is how to convincingly
        make your case with reference to specifics. ☺\
        \
        You should analyse user experiences in relation to the
        following:

- Adherence to usability goals and design principles (from Lectures Week
  1)

- Your own experiences of using these technologies and the feelings or
  emotions that they elicit (and why)

- Metaphors used and interaction modalities offered by the design.

- The people and context that the scenario relates to (see Lectures Week
  1 slide 52). Think about what information is **not provided** and what
  assumptions you therefore need to make about the scenario.

**DESIGN PRODUCT CATEGORIES AND SCENARIOS:**

**Video Calling or Conferencing Platforms (e.g., Skype, Microsoft Teams,
Zoom, Facetime, WeChat Video)**

Which video calling or conferencing platform listed above, or that you
are familiar with, would provide the best user experience in the
following scenarios?

- SCENARIO A: A school teaching online classes to students aged 13-18
  years old at home (approx. 25-30 students in each class)

- SCENARIO B: Grandparents communicating regularly with their young
  grandchildren (aged 3-5) who live far away from them

**Navigation Apps (e.g., Apple Maps, Google Maps, Waze)**

Which navigation app listed above, or that you are familiar with, would
provide the best user experience in the following scenarios?

- SCENARIO C: Visiting a new city on holidays for the first time, and
  navigating from the airport to your hotel using public transport.

- SCENARIO D: Navigating while riding your bike from one place to
  another in your hometown/city (without a mobile phone mount on your
  bike)

**If there is time remaining in your group discussion: Music Playing
Platforms (e.g., iTunes, Spotify, YouTube Music)**

Which music playing platform listed above, or that you are familiar
with, would provide the best user experience in the following scenarios?

- SCENARIO E: Privately listening to music/podcasts while taking public
  transport somewhere

- SCENARIO F: Creating and listening to a playlist of background music
  at a social work function

  a.  While you are doing this activity, your Tutor will check in with
      you and ask you what your chosen making activity is for Project 1.
      Your Tutor can give feedback as to whether this is an appropriate
      choice for the assessment tasks.

4.  Reporting back and discussion (15 minutes)

    a.  The Tutor(s) will bring you back together for a whole group
        discussion to reflect on what you learnt and observed.

    b.  Your Tutor(s) will work by scenario, and for each scenario from
        A-D ask each group to share which design product they chose, and
        the key reason(s) for your choice.\
        \
        Make sure that you succinctly present your main argument and key
        examples that support this (no more than 30 seconds each group
        approx.).

    c.  Your Tutor(s) will facilitate discussion about your responses,
        and address scenarios E-F if you have time.

5.  Questions and tutorial close (5 minutes)

    a.  The Tutor(s) will bring the workshop to a close and answer any
        questions if there is time.

    b.  Please return your name cards to your Tutor(s).
