**Tutorial Week 9, Semester 2 2022: Peer Review of Low-Fidelity
Prototypes**

Prepared by Jennyfer Lawrence Taylor

**Aims and Purpose**

The purpose of this tutorial is to facilitate the giving and receiving
of formative feedback to assist you with your Prototype Design and
Presentation assessment.

You will give feedback to another group about their low-fidelity
prototype, and receive feedback on your own prototype from another
group. You will work with your team members in your project group.

**Preparation**

You should complete the following activities prior to attending your
tutorial:

1.  Read the revised version of the **Course Syllabus** (version 1.3 --
    Released 28 August 2022), noting changes in yellow.

2.  Prepare your low-fidelity prototype to show the other group, and two
    questions you would like to ask the group giving you feedback to
    help improve the quality of your design. See 6.2.3 Ideation and
    Low-Fidelity Prototype (p.35-36) for further information.

3.  Ensure that you have received the lecture content on **Giving and
    Receiving Feedback.\**

**Structure**

The tutorial will follow this structure:

1.  Set-up/prepare for your prototype demonstration and feedback session
    (5 mins)

2.  Feedback Sessions (24-36 mins)

    - Feedback session A (12 mins)

    - Feedback session B (12 mins)

    - Feedback session C (12 mins)\*\* for tutorials with an odd number
      of groups

3.  Work together in your project groups (remaining time)

4.  Tutorial close (5 mins)

**Activities**

1.  Set-up/prepare for your prototype demonstration and feedback session
    (5 mins)

    a.  If you have a physical prototype, set it up and make sure it is
        ready to demonstrate. Otherwise ensure your prototype
        document/file/page is ready to show.

    b.  Make sure that you allocate roles and have a clear understanding
        of which team members will be speaking, observing, take notes
        etc. during your demonstration and feedback sessions.

    c.  Your tutor will arrange your groups for the feedback sessions.

        i.  For tutorials with an even number of groups (e.g., 4
            groups), Group 1 will provide feedback to Group 2 during
            feedback session A, and Group 2 will provide feedback to
            Group 1 during feedback session B.

        ii. For tutorials with an odd number of groups (e.g., 3 groups),
            Group 1 will give feedback to Group 2 during feedback
            session A, Group 2 will provide feedback to Group 3 during
            feedback session B, and Group 3 will provide feedback to
            Group 1 during feedback session C.

2.  Feedback Sessions (24-36 mins)

    a.  Feedback session A (12 mins)

        i.  **If you are the demonstrating group:** Demonstrate your
            low-fidelity prototype to the group who is reviewing your
            design, and explain the rationale for your design (why it is
            your best idea and how it addresses design opportunities).
            This should take up to 3 minutes maximum to allow enough
            time for feedback.\
            \
            Ask your two questions to the feedback giving group relating
            to specific aspects of the design idea or prototype that you
            would like to receive feedback on. Take notes of the
            feedback you have received.

        ii. **If you are the feedback giving group:** Listen to the
            demonstrating group's explanation of their design. Verbally
            answer the two questions that the demonstrating group asks
            you.\
            \
            Additionally, provide verbal feedback to the demonstrating
            group on:\
            - Two (or more) aspects of the prototype that are done well
            (e.g., interesting, well-executed, original, fit for purpose
            etc.)

> \- Two (or more) suggestions to improve the prototype (e.g., feedback
> on the design idea, functionality, usability/user experience, or
> prototype implementation).\
> **Make sure that you take notes on the feedback that you have given,**
> as you will need to submit the feedback that you gave to Wattle.
>
> After 12 minutes maximum, swap over the demonstrating and feedback
> giving groups. There will be a strict time limit out of fairness to
> all groups. If you have not finished during the time allocated, you
> will still need to change over.

b.  Feedback session B (12 mins)

c.  Feedback session C (12 mins)\*\* for tutorials with an odd number of
    groups.

<!-- -->

3.  Work together in your project groups (remaining time)

    a.  Once you have finished giving or receiving feedback (or if you
        are waiting for Feedback session C), work with your group in a
        breakout room on the deliverables that are due in Week 9 (see
        6.2.3 Ideation and Low-Fidelity Prototype AND 6.2.4 Peer
        Feedback to Another Group in the Course Syllabus for details).

4.  Tutorial close (5 mins)

    a.  Your Tutor will bring everyone back together and answer
        questions if time.
