**Tutorial Week 8, Semester 2 2022: Prototyping**

Prepared by Jennyfer Lawrence Taylor and Penny Kyburz

**Aims and Purpose**

The purpose of this tutorial is to give you hands-on experience in
low-fidelity prototyping, which is a key task in the Prototype Design
and Presentation Assessment. You will work with your team members in
your project group.

The intended learning outcomes of this tutorial are to:

- Develop scenarios and storyboards based on user research;

- Prototype through storyboarding; and

- Critically analyse design decisions.

**Preparation**

You should complete the following activities prior to attending your
tutorial:

1.  Read the revised version of the **Course Syllabus** (version 1.3 --
    Released 28 August 2022), noting changes in yellow.

2.  Review the lecture content for Week 6 on **Ideation** and Week 7 on
    **Prototyping.\**

3.  Read **Chapter 12 Design, Prototyping, and Construction** in Sharp
    et al. 2019 *Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction*
    (Sharp, Preece & Rogers 2019) -- Available as an e-book through ANU
    Library website.**\**

4.  Make sure that your group has completed you ideation activities for
    6.2.3 Ideation and Low-Fidelity Prototype (for Peer Feedback) (0% -
    ungraded) (p.35) for both methods (10 ideas total). Bring your list
    of ideas to the tutorial.

**Structure**

The tutorial will follow this structure:

1.  Develop a set of scenarios (15 mins)

2.  Sketch out storyboards based on scenarios (15 mins)

3.  Present and discuss storyboards in groups (15 mins)

4.  Report back and close (5 mins)

**Activities**

1.  Develop a set of scenarios (15 mins)

    a.  Your Tutor will place you in a breakout room with your Project
        Team members.

    b.  Choose your three best design ideas.

    c.  Generate a selection of scenarios in your group that involve the
        use of each of those three technology designs. Ensure you
        generate at least as many scenarios as group members for each
        design idea.

    d.  Assign one scenario to each group member to work on.

<!-- -->

1.  Sketch out storyboards based on scenarios (15 mins)

    a.  Stay in the breakout rooms but work individually to develop each
        scenario into a storyboard. Think through the steps that might
        be involved in the scenario and the personas involved, and draw
        up rough sketches to illustrate each step.

2.  Present and discuss storyboards in groups (15 mins)

    a.  In your project groups, present your storyboard to each other
        and discuss as a group:

        i.  What is the goal of the storyboard?

        ii. What did you learn from developing the storyboard?

        iii. What design decisions did you make when developing this
             storyboard?

    b.  Decide whether the storyboard represents your 'best idea' that
        your group will carry forward for your low-fidelity prototype
        design.

        i.  If so, what further work needs to be done to it to ensure
            that it is ready to present for peer feedback in the Week 9
            tutorial as your low-fidelity prototype?

        ii. If not, what alternative design direction will you take, and
            how will you present this as a low-fidelity prototype for
            the Week 9 peer feedback session?

3.  Report back and close (5 mins)

    a.  Your Tutor will bring everyone back together

    b.  The Tutor will bring the tutorial to a close and answer any
        questions if time.
