**Tutorial Week 3, Semester 2 2022: Cultural Probes**

Prepared by Jennyfer Lawrence Taylor (with contributions from Penny
Kyburz)

**Aims and Purpose**

The purpose of this tutorial is to give you hands-on experience in
designing and working with cultural probes, which is the design research
method that you will be engaging with for Project 1.

The intended learning outcomes of this workshop are to:

- Define and identify the features of cultural probes, and their role in
  HCI research

- Design a cultural probe activity as part of a cultural probe kit

- Evaluate the cultural probe activity designed by other tutorial
  members

- Reflect on designing a meaningful set of cultural probe activities.

**Preparation**

You should complete the following activities prior to attending your
tutorial:

1.  Review the Week 3 lecture content

2.  Read the following papers:

    a.  **Chapter 11 Discovering Requirements**, Section 11.4.1 'Using
        Probes to Engage with Users' (pp. 398-399) in Sharp et al. 2019
        *Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction* (Sharp,
        Preece & Rogers 2019) -- Available as an e-book through ANU
        Library website

    b.  Gaver, B, Dunne, T & Pacenti, E 1999, 'Design: Cultural Probes',
        *Interactions*, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 21--29, accessed from
        \<https://doi-org.virtual.anu.edu.au/10.1145/291224.291235\>

**Structure**

The tutorial will follow this structure:

1.  Review of cultural probe examples in ACM Digital Library (15 mins)

2.  Design of a cultural probe activity (15 mins)

3.  Presentation and discussion of the cultural probe activities, and
    close (20 mins)

**Activities**

Review of cultural probe examples in ACM Digital Library (15 mins)

1.  Search for a HCI paper that use cultural probes in the ACM Digital
    Library. Summarise the cultural probe activities that the paper
    proposes in 1-2 sentences each, and find images of the cultural
    probe kit/activities in the paper

2.  Your Tutor will create a blank OneDrive document and display it on
    the projector or share their screen in Zoom. Your Tutor will share
    the link the to the OneDrive document with you

3.  Copy and paste the cultural probe activities and images that you
    wrote down into the OneDrive document. Include a full citation for
    the paper.

4.  Your Tutor will facilitate a whole group discussion and will ask the
    following questions:

    a.  What is interesting about the cultural probe activities that you
        found?

    b.  What is similar between the cultural probe activities? What are
        the key points of difference between the cultural probe
        activities?

    c.  How do these activities reflect key characteristics of the
        cultural probe method (as discussed in the lecture and
        readings)?

Design of a cultural probe activity (15 mins)

1.  Your Tutor will divide the class into groups of 4

2.  Your group will design a cultural probe activity that relates to the
    topic of "understanding people's experience of cooking or sharing a
    meal with family and friends at home"

3.  Your cultural probe activity description should include

    a.  An explanation of the activity in plain language

    b.  A list of materials provided or required for the activity

    c.  Instructions to the participants (including any templates to
        fill in)

    d.  A list of follow-up interview questions that you could ask the
        participants to find out more about their completed activities

Presentation and discussion of the cultural probe activities, and close
(20 mins)

1.  Your Tutor will bring everyone back together for a whole group
    discussion

2.  Each group will present and explain the activity that they designed

3.  Other groups will ask questions and give feedback that would help to
    improve the activity design

4.  You will consider the set of cultural probe activities together to
    identify:

    a.  Whether the activities work well together as a set, including
        what you can and can't learn about the topic from this set of
        activities

    b.  If there are activities that are too similar to each other, and
        how they could be modified and repositioned in the kit to
        deliver unique insights

    c.  How you would present this set of activities to participants as
        either a physical or a virtual cultural probe kit

    d.  Whether there are ethical issues or considerations relating to
        the cultural probe activities that you have designed.

The Tutor will bring the workshop to a close and answer any questions if
time.
