**Tutorial Week 5, Semester 2 2022: Interviews**

Prepared by Jennyfer Lawrence Taylor (with contributions from Penny
Kyburz)

**Aims and Purpose**

The purpose of this tutorial is to give you hands-on experience with
designing and conducting semi-structured interviews. This is one of the
most common data collection methods in HCI research.

The intended learning outcomes of this tutorial are to:

- Define and identify the features of a semi-structured user interview

- Design an interview guide with well-defined themes and questions

- Evaluate interview questions through practice with other participants

- Reflect on the interview interactions and questions to refine your
  interview approach

Your Prototype Design and Presentation Project Group registration is due
this week by Friday 26 August 6pm. **Please read the Course Syllabus for
further information on project group formation.** Your Tutor will help
you to form project groups in the tutorial this week. It is important
that you attend your tutorial to form a project group.

**Preparation**

You should complete the following activities prior to attending your
tutorial:

1.  Review the **Week 3** lecture content on Interviews

2.  Read **Chapter 8 Data Gathering**, Section 8.4 Interviews (pp.
    268-278) in Sharp et al. 2019 *Interaction Design: Beyond
    Human-Computer Interaction* (Sharp, Preece & Rogers 2019) --
    Available as an e-book through ANU Library website

3.  Read the following paper to see an example of an interview guide
    (accessible through the ACM Digital Library):\
    *Sara Ljungblad, Yemao Man, Mehmet Aydın Baytaş, Mafalda Gamboa,
    Mohammad Obaid, and Morten Fjeld. 2021. What Matters in Professional
    Drone Pilots' Practice? An Interview Study to Understand the
    Complexity of Their Work and Inform Human-Drone Interaction
    Research. In Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors
    in Computing Systems (CHI \'21). Association for Computing
    Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 159, 1--16.
    https://doi-org.virtual.anu.edu.au/10.1145/3411764.3445737*

**Structure**

The tutorial will follow this structure:

1.  Project group formation (10 mins)

2.  Designing an interview guide individually (10 mins)

3.  Conducting an interview in pairs (20 mins)

4.  Reporting back and reflecting, and close (10 mins)

**Activities**

1.  Project group formation (10 mins)

    a.  Your Tutor will advise you how many project groups need to be
        formed within your tutorial session (based on student enrolment
        numbers)

    b.  Form a project group with the right number of students as
        advised by your Tutor

        i.  If you are having difficulties in finding a project group to
            join, please speak to your Tutor.

    c.  Please register your group on Wattle using the project
        registration sign up link for your tutorial session

2.  Designing an interview guide individually (10 mins)

    a.  Your Tutor will ask the following discussion question: How would
        you define a "semi-structured interview" in your own words? Why
        are semi-structured interviews a useful method in HCI research?

    b.  You will undertake the following task individually: Design a
        semi-structured interview guide on the topic of "university
        students' experiences of online shopping":

        i.  Give your interview guide a name

        ii. Write an 'icebreaker question' as a conversation starter to
            build rapport

        iii. Write 5 interview questions about this topic

        iv. Include a prompt to thank your participants at the end of
            your interview guide

3.  Conducting your interview in pairs (20 mins)

    a.  Choose another person from the tutorial to work with

    b.  Practice asking the person the questions from your interview
        guide

        i.  Try and ask at least one follow-up questions that relates to
            their responses, but was not in your original interview
            guide

    c.  Do not record or write down their responses, but note down any
        feedback and suggestions that you have for your interviewer
        about their technique

    d.  Give the other person feedback on their interview questions and
        technique

    e.  Make sure to swap over the interviewer and interviewee after 10
        minutes

4.  Reporting back and reflecting, and close (10 mins)

    a.  The Tutor will bring you back together for a whole group
        discussion to reflect on what you learnt and observed. Think
        about the following questions:

        i.  Why are semi-structured interviews a useful method in HCI
            research?

        ii. What was your experience of designing your interview guide?
            How did you think of ideas for interview questions? Can you
            share some of your questions with the rest of the class?

        iii. What did you learn about conducting interviews when working
             in your pairs? What kinds of feedback did you receive from
             your interview partner?

        iv. How might you refine and improve your interview questions
            based on your experiences and the feedback that you
            received?

5.  The Tutor will bring the tutorial to a close and answer any
    questions if time
